a mysterious creature huge fast and
lethal is lurking somewhere in the duck
people claim to have seen a giant shark
here and there all over the planet
maybe it's the Megalodon an ancient
predator that's believed to be long gone
the Megalodon which means big tooth is
the largest shark ever to roam the earth
seas and oceans it reportedly lived 23
to 3.6 million years ago and was truly
enormous its bite was more powerful than
that of a t-rex and no wonder not only
did the animal have super strong jaws
but its teeth also reached 7 inches in
length that's as long as a small
Hedgehog even better the Megalodon had
about 300 teeth growing in at least six
rows the shark got rid of them as soon
as they wore down the shark itself could
grow up to fifty nine feet it's twice
the length of a London double-decker bus
it was heavy too while a fully grown
t-rex weighed about eight tons a large
megalodons weight reached 50 to 60 tons
as much as nine mature African elephants
with no competitors the immense shark
was a real king of the oceans it even
hunted whales surely such a majestic
creature couldn't disappear without a
trace
and indeed there have been several cases
when witnesses were sure they had seen
the Meg but could it be just their fear
talking in July 1916 the New Jersey
coast of the US was left terrified after
a series of shark attacks it happened
during an oppressive heat wave when
hundreds of beachgoers tried to escape
the heat near the water people described
the culprit that caused all that havoc
as a giant shark much bigger than any
regular one since then scientists have
been debating which shark species was
involved in those accidents the most
popular guesses have been the bull shark
and the great white while swimming in a
tropical sea pretty much anywhere in the
world you might come across a massive
shark the animals length could reach up
to 40 feet the largest specimen ever
seen was a mind-boggling 62 feet long
it's the length of four large hippos the
creature also had
a colossal gaping mouth up to five feet
in a large specimen so warm waters huge
size formidable jaws is it the Megalodon
yeah just a whale shark despite its
impressive bulk
this creature is slow-moving and totally
docile and may grow as long as the mag
used to but isn't likely to be as heavy
the whale shark is a filter feeder and
its favorite food is plankton the animal
also hates low temperatures any colder
than 70 degrees Fahrenheit and it's
already too cold for the shark the first
pictures of a huge shark roaming the
Pacific Ocean not far from Guadalupe
Island appeared in 1999 the creature got
the name deep blue it could be
distinguished from others of its kind by
a wavy pattern separating its gray back
and white belly but even though some
people claimed it could be the infamous
Megalodon experts concluded it was a
female white shark the largest they had
ever seen the average length of a male
white shark is 11 to 13 feet females are
bigger up to 16 feet but deep blue
reached 22 feet in length no wonder
people were confused for the last time
deep blue was spotted in 2013 near the
western coast of Mexico's Baja
California but look there's another
jumbo shark that can be met in any part
of the world the largest specimens reach
32 feet long in a way about five times
judging from the shark size it could be
if not the Megalodon itself but one of
its relatives and again a wrong guess
that's the basking shark it prefers
subpolar seas with temperatures not
higher than 58 degrees even though some
of these animals do migrate to warmer
places like whale sharks basking sharks
are harmless and don't bother snorklers
or divers basking sharks have loads of
small teeth but they don't use them when
feeding instead they swim with their
huge 3-foot wide mouths open and swallow
plankton a 16 foot long basking shark
can filter nearly 500 tons of water per
hour it seems people who claim to have
seen the Meg mistook large-size
but more or less common sharks the
ancient super predator but what if they
were right and the giant shark did still
exist sharks regularly shed and replace
teeth it means that people all over the
planet would keep finding huge teeth
while beachcombing people actually
discover the Megalodon existed through
the monster sharks fossilized teeth
dating back 23 to 2.6 million years ago
but scientists have not managed to find
teeth that would be less than 2.6
million years old plus such a tooth
would be
not only way larger than a regular
shark's tooth but also have a
recognizable shape an expert wouldn't
miss such a finding if there was one
Megalodon there would be others as well
the Megalodon was an apex predator it
means the Sharks didn't have any other
creatures to be afraid of it probably
had to compete for food with other
species but there was no animal that
could hunt the Megg in such conditions
it would be strange if the Megalodon
population didn't grow
now imagine even a hundred of these 60
ton animals at least a couple of them
would be bound to be spotted by people
the Megalodon was at the top of the food
chain and it's diet included large
marine animals such as dolphins or
whales and since the shark was massive
and fast it had great caloric needs and
gobbled down more than 1 ton of food a
day researchers would definitely take
note if big numbers of large marine
vertebrates went missing the Megalodon
lived in tropical regions all over the
world its fossils have been found in
many corners of the planet including
South and North America Europe Asia and
Africa these sharks were rare neither
were they elusive and these days new
species are discovered either because
they inhabit very specific and
unexplored places or because there are
very few representatives of the kind
another reason why the Megalodon
wouldn't be able to avoid people is at
the whale shark preferred tropical and
sub-tropical which means warm waters the
creature wouldn't be hiding in the deep
unexplored parts of the ocean it would
be simply too called for it there if the
Megalodon did exist it
would be lurking near the surface where
the water is warmer
if the Megalodon existed the world ocean
would look very different
large animals have a great influence on
ecosystems by the way there's a theory
that the Meg went extinct all those
years ago because the changing oceans
didn't have enough food for the giant
carnivore well there's no proof they
could or do support the giant shark
these days scientists have discovered
whale bones with the Megalodon bites and
slashes on them but the latest of these
fossils deed back 2.6 million years ago
there aren't any more recent findings
with the mega shark's bite marks on them
in other words expert state there's
simply no way the Megalodon still exists
no fossils newer than from 2 million
years ago found no huge shadows hiding
in the depths no nothing